# SGO 2021-01 Data Element Definitions

## Page 1

Standing General Order (SGO)
2021-01 Data Dictionary
April 15, 2026
Prepared by:
U.S. Department of Transportation
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
Office of Defects Investigation
1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.
Washington, D.C. 20590

## Page 2

Table of Contents
1 Standing General Order 2021-01 Incident Report ............................................................................... 4
2 Change Log ........................................................................................................................................... 4
3 Data Dictionary ..................................................................................................................................... 5
3.1 General Information Section ....................................................................................................... 5
3.2 Basic Incident Information Section .............................................................................................. 6
3.3 Surface Conditions Section ........................................................................................................ 15
3.4 Crash Scene Section ................................................................................................................... 20
3.5 Incident Data Section ................................................................................................................. 29
Page 2 of 32

## Page 3

Table of Figures
Table 1: Change Log ...................................................................................................................................... 4
Table 2: General Information Section Field Definitions ................................................................................ 5
Table 3 Basic Incident Information Section Field Definitions ........................................................................ 6
Table 4: Surface Conditions Section Field Definitions ................................................................................. 15
Table 5: Crash Scene Section Field Definitions ............................................................................................ 20
Table 6: Incident Data Section Field Definitions .......................................................................................... 29
Page 3 of 32

## Page 4

1 Standing General Order 2021-01 Incident Report
You can download Standing General Order (SGO) 2021-01 incident reports in CSV format from the NHTSA
public website. This file contains the third amendment change log to the CSV files and the definitions for
each data field.
It is crucial to understand the terms and requirements of the General Order, the data it aims to obtain,
and the limitations of the data for accurate interpretation and analysis. The following should be
considered when reviewing data and other information. See the Standing General Order on Crash
Reporting page on NHTSA.gov for more details.
 Reporting requirements are different for Automated Driving Systems (ADS) and Level 2 Advanced
Driver Assistance System (ADAS).
 Access to crash data may affect crash reporting.
 Incident report data may be incomplete or unverified.
 Indicated Confidential Business Information (CBI) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) are
redacted. Redactions within the data are noted as “[REDACTED, MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL
BUSINESS INFORMATION],” “[MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION],” or
“[XXX],” depending on the nature of the material redacted.
 The same crash may have multiple reports.
 Summary incident report data are not normalized.
2 Change Log
Table 1: Change Log
Date Revision
8/15/25 Initial release of third amendment reports received from June 16th through July 15,
2025. This release also includes the first publication of the third amended datasets and
updates from previously released reports. Former data publications are saved in the
archive section along with prior versions of the SGO.
9/15/2025 Data release of reports received through August 15, 2025.
10/15/2025 Data release of reports received through September 15, 2025.
11/17/2025 Data release of reports received through October 15, 2025, now includes City and State.
12/15/2025 Data release of reports received through November 17, 2025.
01/15/2026 Data release of reports received through December 15, 2025.
02/17/2026 Data release of reports received through January 15, 2026.
03/16/2026 Data release of reports received through February 17, 2026.
04/15/2026 Data release of reports received through March 16, 2026.
Page 4 of 32

## Page 5

3 Data Dictionary
The following data elements are the definitions for the SGO 2021-01 CSV files.
3.1 General Information Section
Table 2: General Information Section Field Definitions
Field # Name Description
1 Report ID A unique report number generated by NHTSA. This unique number is used to track initial and updated reports for a
given incident.
2 Report Version The Incident Report version. When a Reporting Entity updates a previously filed report, a new version is created and
sequentially numbered by the portal.
3 Reporting Entity The full name of the Reporting Entity filing the report. The full name of the Reporting Entity should match the name of
the company as it is identified in the SGO.
4 Report Type The Incident Report type, as selected by the Reporting Entity.
Drop-down values:
• 5-Day
• Monthly
• Update
5 Report Month The reporting month, as entered by the Reporting Entity. The month should be recorded as its two-digit numeric value
(i.e., 01 to 12). For monthly reports filed under Request Nos. 2 of the SGO, the report month is the month when the
Reporting Entity filed a report of an incident.
6 Report Year The reporting year, as entered by the Reporting Entity. The year should be recorded as its 4 digits numeric value (e.g.,
2025). For monthly reports filed under Request Nos. 2 of the SGO, the report year is the year of the month when the
Reporting Entity filed a report of an incident.
7 Report The month and year in which the incident report was submitted by the Reporting Entity [MON-YYYY format]. This is
Submission Date captured by the NHTSA portal at submission time and is not entered by the Reporting Entity.
Page 5 of 32

## Page 6

3.2 Basic Incident Information Section
Table 3 Basic Incident Information Section Field Definitions
Field # Name Description
8 VIN The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) for the subject vehicle, as reported by the Reporting Entity. The entry includes
only the first 11 characters of the VIN and excludes the last 6 characters of the VIN. This exclusion is based on NHTSA’s
conclusion that the last 6 characters of a VIN is information that may lead to the identification of individuals involved in
a crash. This field uses NHTSA Product Information Catalog and Vehicle Listing (vPIC) to automatically display Make,
Model, and Model Year.
Below are the following possible scenarios based on the entered VIN:
• If VIN is entered and decoded correctly:
The portal will populate Field 11 (Make), Field 13 (Model), and Field 15 (Model Year).
o
The portal will grey out and disable Field 10 (Serial Number).
o
• If VIN is not decoded correctly:
The portal will enable Field 11 (Make), Field 13 (Model), and Field 15 (Model Year).
o
The Reporting Entity must fill out Field 11 (Make), Field 13 (Model), and Field 15 (Model Year) or select
o
UNK for any fields for which they do not have the data element.
Field 10 (Serial Number) will already be enabled by default.
o
• If VIN or serial number are not available, the Reporting Entity should type “unknown” in VIN as instructed in
user guide and acknowledge the portal pop-up message at form validation.
9 VIN Decoded The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity VIN information as entered could be decoded. An un-decoded VIN
could be an erroneous VIN entry or a vPIC decoding issue (e.g., connection timeout error, etc.).
This field will include a “Y” if the Reporting Entity VIN information could not be decoded and will be blank if the
Reporting Entity VIN information, as entered, is correctly decoded.
10 Serial Number The serial number, if any, for the subject vehicle, as entered by the Reporting Entity.
A blank entry typically means that the Reporting Entity entered a valid VIN in response to Field 8 rather than a serial
number in response to Field 10. If VIN or serial number are not available, Reporting Entity should type “unknown” in
VIN as instructed in user guide and acknowledge the portal pop-up message at form validation. A blank entry may also
mean that the Reporting Entity reported that the serial number was unavailable.
Page 6 of 32

## Page 7

Field # Name Description
11 Make The make of the subject vehicle as branded, as reported by vPIC or the Reporting Entity.
12 Make - The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported a valid VIN that can be decoded through vPIC.
Unknown
A blank entry typically means that the Reporting Entity entered a valid VIN or manually entered the data element. This
field will include a “Y” if the entity marked the vehicle make as unknown.
13 Model The model of the subject vehicle as branded, as reported by vPIC or the Reporting Entity.
14 Model - The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported a valid VIN that can be decoded through vPIC.
Unknown
A blank entry typically means that the Reporting Entity entered a valid VIN or manually entered the data element. This
field will include a “Y” if the entity marked the vehicle model as unknown.
15 Model Year The model year of the subject vehicle, as reported by the vPIC or the Reporting Entity.
16 Model Year - The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported a valid VIN that can be decoded through vPIC.
Unknown
A blank entry typically means that the Reporting Entity entered a valid VIN or manually entered the data element. This
field will include a “Y” if the entity marked the vehicle model year as unknown.
17 Same Vehicle ID A unique identifier generated by NHTSA for the subject vehicle. This field was created because NHTSA is not making
public the entire VIN for a subject vehicle and creates a unique identifier that permits data users to determine whether
a subject vehicle was involved in other reported incidents
Page 7 of 32

## Page 8

Field # Name Description
18 Driver / The Reporting Entity’s report of the individual responsible for the operation, fallback operation, or any part of the
Operator Type dynamic driving task (DDT) for the subject vehicle at the time of the incident.
Drop-down values:
• Consumer: Any individual who is operating a commercially available Level 2 ADAS / ADS and is not engaged in
any activity on behalf of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment manufacturer at the time of the incident.
• In-Vehicle (Commercial / Test): An individual, other than a consumer, located within the subject vehicle.
• Remote (Commercial / Test): An individual, other than a consumer, not located within the subject vehicle who
is capable of providing remote driving, fallback, and/or assistance.
• In-Vehicle and Remote (Commercial / Test): A combination of both In-Vehicle (Commercial / Test) and Remote
(Commercial / Test) individuals.
• None: No individual is responsible for any part of the DDT at the time of the incident.
• Other, see Narrative
• Unknown
19 Automation The Reporting Entity’s report of the system or automation feature version of the ADAS or ADS in use on the subject
Feature Version vehicle at the time of the incident.
If the entry states “[REDACTED, MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION],” this indicates that the
Reporting Entity has made and submitted a claim that this information is confidential business information that is
protected from public disclosure. This entry does not indicate that NHTSA has adjudicated any such claim.
20 Automation The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity made a claim that the information it submitted in response to
Feature Version Automation Feature Version constitutes CBI that is protected from disclosure.
CBI
A “Y” in Field 20 indicates that the Reporting Entity claimed that the information it submitted in response to Field 19
constitutes CBI. A blank entry in Field 20 indicates that the Reporting Entity made no such claim.
21 Automation The Reporting Entity’s report of whether the subject incident vehicle was in partial automation (ADAS), ADS, or
System unknown at the time of the crash.
Engaged?
Drop-down values:
• ADAS
• ADS
• Unknown, see Narrative
Page 8 of 32

## Page 9

Field # Name Description
22 Engagement The Reporting Entity’s report of the highest-level driving automation system engagement status at any time during the
Status period 30 seconds immediately prior to the commencement of the crash through the conclusion of the crash.
Drop-down values:
• Verified Engaged
• Alleged Engaged
• Verified Not Engaged
• Unknown, see Narrative
23 Operating Entity The Reporting Entity’s identification of the entity constituting the “operator” of the subject vehicle at the time of the
incident. The term “operator” is defined in the SGO. In certain cases, the operator may be a different entity than the
Reporting Entity.
This field only displays when users select “In-Vehicle (Commercial / Test)” from the Driver / Operator Type drop-down
field. This will allow the users to manually enter the name of the operating entity.
Markings of “[XXX]” indicates some of the information reported by the Reporting Entity has been redacted by NHTSA
because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the disclosure of) PII that is protected from disclosure,
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C.552(B)(6).
24 Operating Entity The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 23 (Operating Entity)
– Unknown was unknown.
25 – 35 Source The entries for Fields 25 – 35 reflect the Reporting Entity’s report of the source from which it received “notice” of the
incident. “Notice” is a defined term in the SGO.
This field is a multi-select picklist to account for multiple notices from different entity sources. An entry of “Y” in
response to any of Fields 25 – 35 indicates the source from which the Reporting Entity received notice, as reported by
the Reporting Entity.
Page 9 of 32

## Page 10

Field # Name Description
25 Source – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a
Complaint/Claim communication of any kind addressed to the Reporting Entity and made by a consumer or other individual or a written
request or written demand for relief.
A “Y” in Field 25 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 25 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
26 Source – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a
Telematics communication in the form of electronic data transmitted from the subject vehicle to the Reporting Entity.
A “Y” in Field 26 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 26 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
27 Source – Law The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a
Enforcement communication in writing, including communications in electronic form, from a law enforcement agency.
A “Y” in Field 27 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 27 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
28 Source – Field The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a
Report communication in writing, including communications in electronic form, from an employee or representative of a
Reporting Entity.
A “Y” in Field 28 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 28 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
29 Source – Testing The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a
communication, including communications in electronic form, regarding a subject vehicle that is undergoing evaluation,
development, or validation testing when the incident occurs.
A “Y” in Field 29 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 29 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
Page 10 of 32

## Page 11

Field # Name Description
30 Source – Media The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a media
organization, either through specific inquiries to the Reporting Entity or through a reported account of an incident.
A “Y” in Field 30 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 30 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
31 Source Other – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a source
See Narrative other than those identified in Fields 25 – 35.
A “Y” in Field 31 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 31 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
32 Source – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from an internal
Internal Process entity process such as an engineering review or data quality review.
Review
A “Y” in Field 32 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 32 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
33 Source – NHTSA The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a posted
VOQ Vehicle Owner’s Questionnaire (VOQ).
A “Y” in Field 33 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 33 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
34 Source – Other The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from another
Entity entity (e.g., operators).
A “Y” in Field 34 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 34 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
Page 11 of 32

## Page 12

Field # Name Description
35 Source – State The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it received notice regarding the incident from a State or
or Other Agency Other Federal Agency (e.g., a local jurisdiction).
A “Y” in Field 35 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this was the source of its notice of the incident, and a blank
entry in Field 35 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
36 Incident Date The Reporting Entity’s report of the month and year the incident occurred [MMM-YY format].
37 Incident Date – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 36 (Incident Date)
Unknown was unknown.
A “Y” in Field 37 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 37
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
38 Incident Time The Reporting Entity’s report of the local time at which the incident occurred [24-hour format].
(24:00)
39 Incident Time – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 38 (Incident Time)
Unknown was unknown.
A “Y” in Field 39 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 39
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
40 Same Incident A unique identifier, generated by NHTSA based on information in the report, for the incident that is the subject of the
ID report. This unique identifier permits data users to determine whether other reports regarding the same incident were
filed by another Reporting Entity.
41 Latitude The Reporting Entity’s report of the latitude of the incident location in decimal degrees.
If the entry states “[MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION],” the information reported by the
Reporting Entity has been redacted by NHTSA because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the
disclosure of) PII that is protected from disclosure.
If Field 41 has unknown latitude or “0,” a location address/description box and zip code box will appear for the
Reporting Entity to describe crash location (e.g. nearest intersection).
Page 12 of 32

## Page 13

Field # Name Description
42 Latitude – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 41 (Latitude) was
Unknown unknown.
A “Y” in Field 42 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 42
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
43 Longitude The Reporting Entity’s report of the longitude of the incident location in decimal degrees.
If the entry states “[MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION],” the information reported by the
Reporting Entity has been redacted by NHTSA because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the
disclosure of) PII that is protected from disclosure.
If Field 43 has unknown Longitude or “0,” a location address/ description box and zip code box will appear for Reporting
Entity to describe crash location (e.g. nearest intersection).
44 Longitude – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 43 (Longitude) was
Unknown unknown.
A “Y” in Field 44 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 44
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
45 Address The street address or the roadway location where the incident occurred, as reported by the Reporting Entity.
If the entry states “[MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION],” the information reported by the
Reporting Entity has been redacted by NHTSA because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the
disclosure of) PII that is protected from disclosure.
46 Address – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 45 (Address) was
Unknown unknown.
A “Y” in Field 46 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 46
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
47 City The city where the incident occurred, as reported by the Reporting Entity.
Page 13 of 32

## Page 14

Field # Name Description
48 City – Unknown The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 47 (City) was
unknown.
A “Y” in Field 48 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 48
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
49 State The state or territory where the incident occurred, as reported by the Reporting Entity.
50 Zip Code The 5-digit ZIP code where the incident occurred, as reported by the Reporting Entity.
If the entry states “[MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION],” the information reported by the
Reporting Entity has been redacted by NHTSA because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the
disclosure of) PII that is protected from disclosure.
51 Zip Code – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the information requested in Field 50 (Zip Code) was
Unknown unknown.
A “Y” in Field 51 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 51
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
Page 14 of 32

## Page 15

3.3 Surface Conditions Section
Table 4: Surface Conditions Section Field Definitions
Field # Name Description
52 Roadway Type The type of road on which the subject vehicle was operating at the time of the incident, as reported by the Reporting
Entity.
Drop-down values:
• Highway / Freeway: A divided arterial highway with full control of access.
• Street: Local city or residential road not at an intersection; does not include unpaved or rural roads.
• Intersection: An area where two or more roadways join or cross.
• Parking Lot: Dedicated area intended for parking vehicles, including a publicly accessible road within a dedicated
parking area and on-street parking.
• Traffic Circle: A circular intersection, rotary, roundabout, or similar junction in which road traffic is permitted to
flow in one direction.
• Rural Road: Local road outside densely populated areas; does not include unpaved roads or a highway/freeway.
• Parking Garage: A building, often of several stories, that provides parking space.
• Unpaved Road: A roadway where the surface is not concrete or asphalt.
• Unknown
53 - 60 Roadway The entries for Fields 53 – 60 reflect the Reporting Entity’s report of the roadway description.
Description
This field is a multi-select picklist to account for multiple roadway descriptions. An entry of “Y” in response to any of
Fields 53 – 60 indicates the roadway description was applicable at the time of the incident, as reported by the Reporting
Entity.
53 Roadway – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway had visible signs of damage and deterioration
Degraded Surface at the time of the incident. Examples include, but are not limited to, potholes, cracks, and unevenness.
A “Y” in Field 53 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 53
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
Page 15 of 32

## Page 16

Field # Name Description
54 Roadway – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway had missing, degraded, or otherwise altered
Missing/Degraded lane markings that were not in conjunction with a work zone at the time of the incident.
Markings
A “Y” in Field 54 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 54
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
55 Roadway – No The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway did not contain any unusual anomalies or
Unusual imperfections at the time of the incident.
Conditions
A “Y” in Field 55 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 55
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
56 Roadway – Other- The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported other conditions in the roadway at the time of the incident.
See Narrative
A “Y” in Field 56 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 56
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
57 Roadway – Traffic The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway had a prior traffic event that adversely
Incident affected normal traffic operations separate from the reported incident at the time of the incident. Examples include,
but are not limited to, first responder activity, traffic crashes, disabled vehicles, and spilled cargo.
A “Y” in Field 57 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 57
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
58 Roadway – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway conditions were unknown at the time of the
Unknown incident.
A “Y” in Field 58 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 58
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
59 Roadway – Wet The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway had a wet surface that reduced traction,
Surface Condition increased stopping distances, or could lead to hydroplaning at the time of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 59 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 59
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
Page 16 of 32

## Page 17

Field # Name Description
60 Roadway – Work The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the roadway was an area where construction,
Zone maintenance, or utility work activities were identified by warning signs, signals, or other indicators at the time of the
incident.
A “Y” in Field 60 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was recorded, and a blank entry in Field 60
reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
61 - 71 Weather The entries for Fields 61 – 71 reflect the Reporting Entity’s report of the weather or environmental conditions at the
time and location of the incident.
This field is a multi-select picklist to account for multiple weather conditions were reported for a single incident. An
entry of “Y” in response to any of Fields 61 – 71 indicates the weather was present at the time of the incident, as
reported by the Reporting Entity.
61 Weather – Clear The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there were no adverse weather conditions at the time
and place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 61 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 61
reflects the lack of any such report.
62 Weather – Snow The entry for reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it was snowing at the time and place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 62 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 62
reflects the lack of any such report.
63 Weather – Cloudy The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported cloudy conditions at the time and place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 63 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 63
reflects the lack of any such report.
64 Weather – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there were low visibility conditions, including fog, smoke,
Fog/Smoke/ Haze or haze at the time and place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 64 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 64
reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 17 of 32

## Page 18

Field # Name Description
65 Weather – Rain The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that it was raining at the time and place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 65 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 65
reflects the lack of any such report.
66 Weather – Severe The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there were severe winds at the time and place of the
Wind incident.
A “Y” in Field 66 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 66
reflects the lack of any such report.
67 Weather – Partly The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there were partly cloudy conditions at the time and place
Cloudy of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 67 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 67
reflects the lack of any such report.
68 Weather – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the incident took place within a building or under-cover.
Structure-Indoor
A “Y” in Field 68 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 68
reflects the lack of any such report.
69 Weather – Dust The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there was a dust storm at the time and place of the
Storm incident.
A “Y” in Field 69 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 69
reflects the lack of any such report.
70 Weather – Severe The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there were severe hurricane conditions at the time and
Hurricane place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 70 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 70
reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 18 of 32

## Page 19

Field # Name Description
71 Weather – Unk- The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that there were unknown weather conditions at the time and
See Narrative place of the incident.
A “Y” in Field 71 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that these conditions were present, and a blank entry in Field 71
reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 19 of 32

## Page 20

3.4 Crash Scene Section
Table 5: Crash Scene Section Field Definitions
Field # Name Description
72 Crash With The Reporting Entity’s categorical description of any vehicle, non-motorist, animal, or object with which the subject
vehicle came into contact during the incident.
Drop-down values:
• Passenger Car
• SUV
• Van
• Pickup Truck
• Motorcycle
• Bus
• Heavy Truck
• First Responder Vehicle
• Non-Motorist: Pedestrian
• Non-Motorist: Cyclist
• Non-Motorist: Scooter – Skateboard
• Non- Motorist: Other
• Pole / Tree
• Other Fixed Object
• Animal
• Other, see Narrative
• Unknown
Page 20 of 32

## Page 21

Field # Name Description
73 Highest Injury The Reporting Entity’s report of the highest confirmed or alleged crash injury severity level resulting from the incident.
Severity Alleged
Drop-down values:
• Fatality: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party was fatally injured.
• Serious With Hospitalization: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party sustained serious injuries
that required hospitalization or emergency treatment.
• Serious Without Hospitalization: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party sustained serious
injuries excluding hospitalization or emergency treatment.
• Moderate With Hospitalization: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party sustained injuries and
sought medical treatment that required hospitalization or emergency treatment.
• Moderate Without Hospitalization: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party sustained injuries
excluding hospitalization or emergency treatment.
• Minor With Hospitalization: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party sustained possible injuries
and sought medical treatment that required hospitalization or emergency treatment.
• Minor Without Hospitalization: Confirmed or alleged incident where an involved party sustained possible
injuries excluding hospitalization or emergency treatment.
• No Injuries Reported: No injuries were reported or alleged from the incident.
• Property Damage, No Injury: The incident resulted in property damage only with no injuries.
• Unknown
Page 21 of 32

## Page 22

Field # Name Description
74 CP Pre-Crash The Reporting Entity’s report of the pre-crash movement of any crash partner/other vehicle or non-motorist (NM) prior
Movement to the incident. Field 74 will be blank if the Reporting Entity does not report any crash partner, other vehicle, or non-
motorist.
Drop-down values:
• Stopped: Vehicle was stopped and not moving.
• Proceeding Straight: Vehicle was moving uniformly in one direction only.
• Lane / Road Departure: Vehicle left the original lane of travel.
• Making Right Turn: Vehicle was turning right. Making Left Turn: Vehicle was turning left.
• Making U-Turn: Vehicle was making a U- Turn.
• Backing: Vehicle was backing in reverse. Passing: Vehicle was passing another vehicle. Changing Lanes: Vehicle
was in the process of changing lanes within the same direction of travel.
• Parking Maneuver: Vehicle was parking into a space including forward, reverse, or parallel.
• Entering Traffic: Vehicle was entering onto a roadway from a non-roadway – e.g., parking lot, driveway.
Crossing into Opposing Lane: Vehicle traveled into the opposing lane intentionally to maneuver around a
vehicle, object, or other obstruction.
• Parked: Vehicle was parked at the time of the incident.
• Merging: Vehicle was merging onto a roadway from another roadway.
• Traveling Wrong Way: Vehicle was traveling on the roadway in the wrong direction of the intended traffic flow.
• NM Crossing Roadway: Non-motorist moving across the roadway.
• NM Waiting to Cross Roadway: Non-motorist waiting to attempt to cross the roadway.
• NM Moving Alongside Roadway: Non- motorist walking or cycling along the side of a roadway (not on a
sidewalk) with or against the flow of traffic.
• NM Moving on Sidewalk: Non-motorist walking or cycling on a sidewalk alongside a roadway with or against
the flow of traffic.
• NM in Roadway - Other: Non-motorist moving in the roadway with or against the flow of traffic.
• Other, see Narrative. Unknown
Page 22 of 32

## Page 23

Field # Name Description
75 - 91 CP Contact Area The entry reflects the location of any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash on the crash partner or other
vehicle.
This field is a multi-select picklist. An entry of “Y” in response to any of Fields 75 – 91 reflects the Reporting Entity’s
report of crash contact or damage at the specified location. Fields 75 – 91 will be blank if the Reporting Entity does not
report any crash partner, other vehicle, or non-motorist. One or more of Fields 75 – 91 will be blank if the Reporting
Entity does not report any contact or damage at the location described for that field. Possible selections include a
combination of contact areas related to the subject crash.
75 CP Contact Area - The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
Rear Left identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 75 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 75 reflects the lack of any such report.
76 CP Contact Area - The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
Left identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 76 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 76 reflects the lack of any such report.
77 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Front Left identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 77 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 77 reflects the lack of any such report.
78 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Rear identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 78 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 78 reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 23 of 32

## Page 24

Field # Name Description
79 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Top identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 79 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 79 reflects the lack of any such report.
80 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Front identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 80 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 80 reflects the lack of any such report.
81 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Rear Right identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 81 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 81 reflects the lack of any such report.
82 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Right identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 82 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 82 reflects the lack of any such report.
83 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Front Right identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 83 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 83 reflects the lack of any such report.
84 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Bottom identified location on the crash partner or other vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 84 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 84 reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 24 of 32

## Page 25

Field # Name Description
85 CP Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported that the location of any crash contact or damage resulting
– Unknown from the crash on the crash partner or other vehicle was unknown.
A “Y” in Field 85 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported that the location of any crash contact or damage resulting
from the crash on the crash partner or other vehicle was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 85 reflects the lack of any
such report.
86 SV Pre-Crash The Reporting Entity’s report of the pre- crash movement of the subject vehicle prior to the incident.
Movement
Drop-down values:
• Stopped: Vehicle was stopped and not moving.
• Proceeding Straight: Vehicle was moving uniformly in one direction only.
• Lane / Road Departure: Vehicle left the original lane of travel.
• Making Right Turn: Vehicle was turning right.
• Making Left Turn: Vehicle was turning left.
• Making U-Turn: Vehicle was making a U- Turn.
• Backing: Vehicle was backing in reverse.
• Passing: Vehicle was passing another vehicle.
• Changing Lanes: Vehicle was in the process of changing lanes within the same direction of travel.
• Parking Maneuver: Vehicle was parking into a space including forward, reverse, or parallel.
• Entering Traffic: Vehicle was entering onto a roadway from a non-roadway (e.g., parking lot, driveway, etc.).
• Crossing into Opposing Lane: Vehicle traveled into the opposing lane intentionally to maneuver around a
vehicle, object, or other obstruction.
• Parked: Vehicle was parked at the time of the incident.
• Merging: Vehicle was merging onto a roadway from another roadway.
• Traveling Wrong Way: Vehicle was traveling on the roadway in the wrong direction of the intended traffic flow.
• Other, see Narrative
• Unknown
Page 25 of 32

## Page 26

Field # Name Description
87 Any Air Bags The Reporting Entity’s report of whether any air bag in the subject vehicle or crash partner deployed.
Deployed?
Drop-down values:
• Yes Subject Vehicle, No Crash Partner
• Yes Subject Vehicle, Yes Crash Partner
• Yes Subject Vehicle, Unknown Crash Partner
• No Subject Vehicle, No Crash Partner
• No Subject Vehicle, Unknown Crash Partner
• Yes Crash Partner, No Subject Vehicle
• Yes Crash Partner, Unknown Subject Vehicle
• No Crash Partner, Unknown Subject Vehicle
• Not Applicable
• Unknown
88 Was Vehicle The Reporting Entity’s report of whether the subject vehicle or crash partner were towed from the scene.
Towed?
Drop-down values:
• Yes Subject Vehicle, No Crash Partner
• Yes Subject Vehicle, Yes Crash Partner
• Yes Subject Vehicle, Unknown Crash Partner
• No Subject Vehicle, No Crash Partner
• No Subject Vehicle, Unknown Crash Partner
• Yes Crash Partner, No Subject Vehicle
• Yes Crash Partner, Unknown Subject Vehicle
• No Crash Partner, Unknown Subject Vehicle
• Unknown
Page 26 of 32

## Page 27

Field # Name Description
89 Were All The Reporting Entity’s report of whether all passengers in the subject vehicle were wearing seat belts at the time of the
Passengers incident.
Belted?
Drop-down values:
• Subject Vehicle – All Belted
• Subject Vehicle – Not Belted – see Narrative
• Subject Vehicle – No Passenger In Vehicle
• Unknown
90 SV Precrash The Reporting Entity’s report of the speed of the subject vehicle at the time of the incident in miles per hour.
Speed (MPH)
91 SV Pre-crash The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported that the pre-crash speed of the subject vehicle was unknown.
Speed –
Unknown A “Y” in Field 91 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown. A blank entry in Field 91
reflects the lack of any report by the Reporting Entity that the pre-crash speed of the subject vehicle was unknown.
92 - 102 SV Contact Area The entry reflects the location of any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash on the subject vehicle.
This field is a multi-select picklist. An entry of “Y” in response to any of Fields 92 – 102 reflects the Reporting Entity’s
report of crash contact or damage at the specified location. One or more of Fields 92 – 102 will be blank if the Reporting
Entity does not report any contact or damage on the subject vehicle at the location described for that field. Possible
selections include a combination of contact areas related to the subject crash.
92 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Rear Left identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 92 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 92 reflects the lack of any such report.
93 SV Contact Area - The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
Left identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 93 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 93 reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 27 of 32

## Page 28

Field # Name Description
94 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Front Left identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 94 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 94 reflects the lack of any such report.
95 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Rear identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 95 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 95 reflects the lack of any such report.
96 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Top identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 96 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 96 reflects the lack of any such report.
97 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Front identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 97 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 97 reflects the lack of any such report.
98 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Rear Right identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 98 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 98 reflects the lack of any such report.
99 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Right identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 99 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 99 reflects the lack of any such report.
Page 28 of 32

## Page 29

Field # Name Description
100 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Front Right identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 100 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 100 reflects the lack of any such report.
101 SV Contact Area The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported any crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
– Bottom identified location on the subject vehicle.
A “Y” in Field 101 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported crash contact or damage resulting from the crash at the
identified location, and a blank entry in Field 101 reflects the lack of any such report.
102 SV Contact Area - The entry indicates whether the Reporting Entity reported that the location of any crash contact or damage resulting
Unknown from the crash on the subject vehicle was unknown.
A “Y” in Field 102 reflects that the Reporting Entity reported that the location of any crash contact or damage resulting
from the crash on the subject vehicle was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 102 reflects the lack of any such report.
3.5 Incident Data Section
Table 6: Incident Data Section Field Definitions
Field # Name Description
103 - 116 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s sources of available data or other information regarding the incident.
Availability
This field is a multi-select picklist. An entry of “Y” in response to any of Fields 103 – 116 reflects the Reporting Entity’s
report that the data described in that field is available for the subject vehicle. A blank entry in Fields 103 – 116 reflects
that the Reporting Entity has not reported that the data described in that field is available.
103 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of Event Data Recorder (EDR) information from
Availability – the subject vehicle.
EDR
A “Y” in Field 103 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this data is available, and a blank entry in Field 103 reflects
the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
Page 29 of 32

## Page 30

Field # Name Description
104 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of a police report, other governmental report,
Availability – or investigative record regarding the incident.
Police Rpt
A “Y” in Field 104 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this data is available, and a blank entry in Field 104 reflects
the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
105 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of data or other information regarding the
Availability – incident transmitted via telematics (e.g., over-the-air automatic crash notifications) from the subject vehicle.
Telematics
A “Y” in Field 105 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this data is available, and a blank entry in Field 105 reflects
the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
106 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of consumer complaints regarding the incident.
Availability –
Complaints A “Y” in Field 106 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this data is available, and a blank entry in Field 106 reflects
the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
107 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of video information (from the subject vehicle
Availability – or otherwise) relating to the incident.
Video
A “Y” in Field 107 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this data is available, and a blank entry in Field 107 reflects
the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
108 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of information relating to the incident other
Availability – than that the ones specified in the other data availability selections.
Other
A “Y” in Field 108 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this data is available, and a blank entry in Field 108 reflects
the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
109 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the lack of any available additional data regarding the incident.
Availability –
No Data A “Y” in Field 109 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that there is no such data available, and a blank entry in Field
109 reflects the lack of any such report from the Reporting Entity.
Page 30 of 32

## Page 31

Field # Name Description
110 Data The entry reflects the Reporting Entity’s report regarding the availability of additional data or information regarding the
Availability – incident.
Unknown
A “Y” in Field 110 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that the availability of any such additional data or information
was unknown, and a blank entry in Field 110 reflects the lack of any such report by the Reporting Entity.
111 Investigating The Reporting Entity’s report on the name of any law enforcement agency investigating the incident.
Agency
If the entry states “[MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION],” the information reported by the
Reporting Entity has been redacted by NHTSA because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the
disclosure of) PII that is protected from disclosure.
112 Investigating The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity reported the name of any law enforcement agency investigating the
Agency - incident.
Unknown
A “Y” in Field 112 reflects the Reporting Entity’s report that this information was unknown.
113 Within ODD? The Reporting Entity’s report on whether the subject vehicle was acting within its ODD during the period 30 seconds
prior to the crash through the conclusion of the crash.
Drop-down values:
• Yes
• No, see Narrative
• Unknown, see Narrative
• Exiting ODD
If the entry states “[REDACTED, MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION],” this indicates that the
Reporting Entity has made and submitted a claim that this information is CBI that is protected from public disclosure.
114 Within ODD? – The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity made a claim that the information it submitted in response to Field 113
CBI (Within ODD?) constitutes CBI that is protected from disclosure.
A “Y” in Field 114 indicates that the Reporting Entity claimed that the information it submitted in response to Field 113
(Within ODD?) constitutes CBI. A blank entry in Field 114 indicates that the Reporting Entity made no such claim.
Page 31 of 32

## Page 32

Field # Name Description
115 Narrative The Reporting Entity’s written narrative of the pre-crash, crash, and post-crash details, and other information.
If the entry states “[REDACTED, MAY CONTAIN CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION],” this indicates that the
Reporting Entity has made and submitted a claim that some or all this information is CBI and is protected from public
disclosure. If the Reporting Entity has made such a claim, only those portions of the narrative for which a claim has been
made are redacted. Markings of “[XXX]” indicates some of the information reported by the Reporting Entity has been
redacted by NHTSA because NHTSA has concluded that it may constitute (or lead to the disclosure of) PII that is
protected from disclosure, pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552(B)(6).
116 Narrative - CBI? The entry reflects whether the Reporting Entity made a claim that some or all the information it submitted in response
to Field 115 (Narrative) constitutes CBI that is protected from disclosure.
A “Y” in Field 116 indicates that the Reporting Entity claimed that some or all of the information it submitted in response
to Field 115 (Narrative) constitutes CBI. A blank entry in Field 116 indicates that the Reporting Entity made no such
claim.
Page 32 of 32
